Let us talk about the time and space complexity.
This is a very important topic and sometimes it is difficult for the students to understand though it
is not that difficult if not complex.
Though the word complexity is used is very simple.
Let me explain you.
What does it mean by bank on Lake City.
Then afterwards I'll tell you about space complexity also.
So first let us start with 10 complexity see in daily life.
When we do any work any task we want to know how much time it takes for that performing that particular
task let us suppose it is a one hour task or a one day task.
So that amount of time required depending on the work that we have to do.
So usually in daily life we measure the time based on the work that we have to do.
So now we're using machines to do over work that is computers to do over work.
So you want to know how much time and machine takes for doing the same task.
Like if a person is making a bread in 15 minutes 20 minutes then if you're using machine for making
that bread how much time the machine takes.
We are interested in that what if machine is taking 45 hours then it's better to do it manually.
So how much time a machine takes is very important for us.
So we use computers for problem solving.
What type of problem solving the work that we use do it using pen and paper.
That same work.
We want our computers to do that.
So computers are used for performing computation task so computation also needs time.
So you want to measure how much time a machine will take.
So actually that depends on the process or the procedure for completing that task.
So that time complexity basically depends on the procedure that you are adopting so far giving you the
idea I have taken various examples using these examples.
I'll explain you what procedure may take what amount of time.
So let us start with three feet this scenario of some size and some elements are there.
So how many elements are there.
See this is the example already I have taken.
And you can count that there are total 10 elements but validity always 10 elements are depends on the
problem.
So depending on the problem.
So how many elements may be there.
The list of elements in an array we say n elements we don't know how many elements we have today maybe
ten or ten thousand or ten million.
We don't know.
So we say n n means some number of elements that number of elements may start from one up to infinity.
So we don't define infinity for the maximum number or whatever that number you can imagine you take
that one for any means not just five or 10 does the first important thing mostly store and get confused
here.
So elements some number of elements.
So let us say there are any elements in this list.
Now what do you want to do with these elements.
I want to add all of them.
So you have to go through all of them if one by one you have to take their limit and go on adding it
for how much time it takes depends on the number of elements.
So what is the time taken and we say n the next thing what we want to do.
I want to search for a particular number whether element twelve is there or not search for it.
Yes it is there.
I want to search for element 21.
Is it there or not check for all.
Not really one is not there.
So I can most how much time it is taking.
It depends on the number of elements that you have to compare.
So how many elements are there and elements are there.
So what is the time taken.
And so the famous n so it means in a list if you have some n elements and you are going through all
of them just once then the timers end.
So this and the v represented as a degree degree so we can say order off and we usually use the term
order degree or order or something.
So we use the term order of and there are other times like a big deal or may God TTR that I will explain
you at the end of the course because till then you will be having the good understanding of time complex
it is then I can explain you what is B go on a go and take on so told the course I'll be using term
order off.
So when we know what are is important notations like before me that take out then you will understand
how to use them so let's say order of and then next thing.
Next very important thing if you want to access that all the elements then what the code that you have
to write for are you assigned zero.
I use less than an I plus plus then whatever you want to do here makes you want to add all of them are
so something or count number of elements are finding maximum element whatever you want to do that logic
come here.
So that procedure comes here.
So whatever the procedure may be then this for loop for taking us through all those elements 1 So how
many elements an element.
So what is the time and knowledge listen the very important thing for finding the time complexity either
you can measure the time based on the work that you are doing for the of the procedure if you're clear
with your procedure you can know the time or else from the chord program code also you can find the
time complexity if there is a follow up going through 0 2 lastly amendments it's Edna taking or different
time whatever it is there inside will repeat four and times so we analyse based on the procedure also
based on the core dollars so and the most confusing thing is when the code is given we get confused
how to analyze this one so actually what the chord is doing.
You do that work and based on the work you analyse it it's very simple it's very simple if you don't
want to understand what the chord is doing then is difficult task a follow up is used means there is
a chance that times are off and now let us move to the next situation.
See and this list is always being on the first element.
I am competing or processing all other elements once then being on the second element.
Again I am processing all other elements.
Maybe I'm competing for sorting purposes whatever the purpose may be.
This five am competing or processing with the rest of all the elements like that for each element.
I'll be checking with all the rest of the elements.
So for one value it will take for all means and elements.
Then for the next value also.
If it is chicken for all processing for all the net n n elements so n elements are being processed but
how many times for each element and elements how process so this will be in squared.
This is an illusion that is in square so we can sell it rough and squared
so does another case lie in the same case.
I'll show you one more thing for processing like this how the court should look like the court should
have nested for loop.
Again I should have for loop that is for GSI in zero G is less than N and joblessness and inside this
Albert I think that processing whatever the work I want to do.
These will be the statements.
So when you have two nested for loops a 10 square simple you don't have to check a line by line every
statement at all just from the code you go got the rough idea you can say it's in square but sometime
for analyzing the code we check every line.
So the idea is we should not miss any line.
We should create it.
Check check it thoroughly.
That's why we write the time complexity but all the time complexity is written in terms of the degree
of a polynomial so it is sort of an squared nested for loop mints and squared.
So let us follow it like a formula.
Port situation for the same Ari c.
Suppose being on first element and processing the rest of the elements.
For N minus one element sound processing then being on the second element and processing the rest of
the element I'm not processing up on this one right.
So and minus two then being on the third element time processing let's drop them.
It depends what you are doing.
Right.
So imagine something you are doing so you're processing the star of the elements so this is minus three
like that.
It will be go under the using then finally it will be for elementary element good element then 1.
This is what.
And in goo and the minus one might do some off us and natural number.
So it is not and minus 1.
So this will be and squared minus end by 2.
So what is the degree of this polynomial.
This is N squared.
So it's order off in squared so that's what the time complexity that we are writing.
We are writing the degree of a polynomial.
See this time I have done detailed analysis and I got a polynomial and for that I got a function that's
like a function and a degree of a functions and square four times and square.
If same thing I did in the form func form of a for loop then this is Jason not starting from zero where
G will be starting from I plus 1 she not again doing this set for loop.
So Atmore so this will take and squared time.
Yes the next I'll show you one more situation.
4 to 1.
Let us look at this.
I'll remove this one now in disarray.
Suppose first of all you're processing the middle element suppose Ford is the middle element right there
are 10 elements.
So fifth element of the seminal element.
Len Nix either on the left side or on the right side.
Again you go in the middle Suppose suppose there's no middle element on the side living in the middle
element on this side.
So in this way we are not processing the entire list.
We are processing half of the list.
Then again it's half.
So that process is always dividing the list by two.
So when something is successful successively divided until it reaches one that is represented as long.
And we are divided by 2 1/2.
So log off n elements log n so the time complexities log in if we are not processing all elements.
Then if a later go to for that one then the quarter will look like this for i.e. start from
and an eye is greater than one eye is getting divided by two every time
not just by looking at for loop.
Don't tell.
Blindly order often because just not previously we saw it often.
I read it.
How the follow up is behaving.
That's why we check it thoroughly when we are reading the code.
We totally check.
Line by line so that we should not go wrong.
But overall we need answer log in.
If the value of Gounder I is getting divided by two every time then it is log n divided by two log in
base to and how long it is happening.
I can agree just one.
The same thing can even be done using Y loop C I assign n.
And while I is greater than 1 and some processing I is always divided by 2.
Same thing in store for loop.
You can use a while loop also usually when this is not incrementing one by one every time for loop is
not incrementing by one every time.
We prefer using VI loop but in C C++ Java programming when for loops are there people use for low for
this purpose also followup is used for counters which are implementing by 1.
So anyway when this is written you have to read it thoroughly and find out how much time it is taking.
So we have seen 4 different behaviors offer procedures that are performed on tree and also have shown
you the code and also shown you how we can analyze the from the code how we get analyzed from the work.
So if you were analyzing from the work the process that's what we got.
Now let us proceed ahead.
See this is the linguist we'll be studying about this linguistic data structure later on this will be
same as early like this is list and this also a list.
So what already started there.
Same thing applies here.
The next is a max matrix as having how many elements the dimensions are formed by 4.
So total how many elements if dimension is in throws and then total in squared elements so when you're
processing up on a matrix then it will require N squared amount of time.
If you're processing all the elements if you say no I'm just processing a roll then Roy's having an
elements order often 9 processing just a column.
So again it's an order of and if you're processing all elements then it is and squared null should the
code for that.
I remove this for processing and mappings of elements we need to nested for loops ie plus plus and inside
this for Geoscience 0 JS less than N and Jebus plus whatever you want to do with those elements you
can do that.
So this is and square not for one element if you're processing more up on that element and that requires
suppose a loop are suppose you are calling a function which is having a loop then the time will be more
fa fa fa 3 follows inside then it will be n cube right.
If you are processing only one unit of time.
Just one statement or two statements are this simple statement no loops that sound square on then coming
but this is structure.
This looks like a really awful linguist like linguistic total how many elements are there.
So here legacy and elements are there these elements so you can see that these are of different sizes.
And here are the top five.
So total how much processing is required.
We have to process all these elements as well as using this early so we can see em plus and processing
as required.
If you say no I don't want to consider this I want to consider only the number of elements okay.
Consider only in number of elements are driven.
What does it mean by considering not considering.
I'll give you an idea just listen as an example suppose you are giving a party to your friend from some
45 friends you have call them on their hotel for a party then what is the cost.
The cost of the food that you're taking there.
Then the bill at the hotel plus travelling amount and if any Xstrata thinks that you are spending on
tips you are giving.
Do you consider that amount also and included as the cost for a party.
It depends on you it depends on you the same way whether you want to analyze or not it depends on you.
So you should be in a situation to understand whether you need it or not.
Right.
Mostly what students believe that they are doing it because it is a given other task as a challenge
for somebody else a job they are doing.
So they get worried that they should consider or not why I should leave it.
So that is your choice.
You'll be in that situation and solve it.
So that's all.
If you say I don't want to consider this means you are processing it but you don't want to consider
the time taken for that one so only are often that's it.
So this is structure is over.
Now last one.
This one does a binary tree.
So if you have a 180 structure total elements are one two three four five six seven and seven elements
are there.
Then how much processing is done.
Suppose you are processing searching or something and you are processing up on the elements only along
the part like this one then this one on this one or this one then this one and this one.
Suppose you're processing just along a part then then what is the height.
It depends on the height.
So how many elements you are processing.
See there are some elements divided by two then divided by two.
Until it reaches one element so total seven elements either as from the bottom if you see the number
of elements are divided by good and divided by two.
So it looks like log in this log in Bristol.
So we'll be studying about this one.
So if you're spending time up on our tree along the height of our tree then it is log in.
Next situation if you say no I want to process all the elements then how many elements are there any
element.
So it is all rough and then whatever the program code that you write for processing this one and back
code also will be ordered off.
And only if you analyze that one.
So this is the general idea I have given you a border time complexity for the time complex it is sole
and solely dependent on the work that you are doing now a little bit on space complexity.
We want to know how much space is consumed in main memory during the execution of a program.
So Ari and elements are there thoughts are often this is an elements are there order often spaces and
months and indeed years or any flaws or any doubles whatever it is and elements we say we are not concerned
about the number of bytes number of bytes right we are not concerned more that we are not quite calculating
that we want to know the space is dependent on what and the if the value of and is more the space will
be more that's more ideas than here also send along with the element you need space for links also.
So there is a two in two and again the degree is what order often then coming to this this is spaces
and square and this is places M Plus and and the space here is and nodes are there sorts and are often
so the next video I take few program call and show you.
So without looking at the processing just from the program called How to find out the time complexity
I will show you so that following the serial.